Abyssal Chill: Reduced the torment duration from 6 seconds to 4 seconds in PvE only.
Adrenal Implant: This trait now also reduces the recharge of your tool belt skills when you dodge. Reduced the endurance regen rate from 50% to 25%.
Awaken the Pain: This trait has been moved to the master minor slot, replacing Death's Embrace, and it no longer causes might to grant less condition damage.
Backpack Regenerator: This trait has been reworked and renamed to Blast Zone. Create a blast finisher when you use your healing tool belt skill.
Beguiling Haze: Increased the radius from 120 to 180.
Bladetrail: This skill now immobilizes enemies instead of crippling them. Reduced the casting time from 0.72 seconds to 0.6 seconds. Reduced the aftercast from 0.28 seconds to 0.15 seconds. The projectile fired by this skill now travels faster.
Bolstered Bonds: Reduced the condition damage increase with Legendary Demon Stance from 150 to 75 in PvE only.
Boundless Knowledge: This trait has been reworked and renamed to Shared Wisdom. This trait now grants boons to allies around you whenever you use a Legendary Entity Skill, depending on which skill was used.
Bountiful Power: This trait has been reworked. Gain charges when switching attunements. At 5 charges, gain quickness and increased strike damage for a duration.
Box of Nails: This skill is no longer an ammunition skill and now always inflicts immobilize on the first pulse.
Bullet Catcher: This skill has been removed and replaced by Defiant Roar.
Defiant Roar: This skill replaces Bullet Catcher
Call and Response: Fixed an issue that caused afterimages to deal more damage than intended.
Chain Reactivity: The larger barrier generated by the third successful trigger will now also be applied to allies at a reduced amount.
Chak Shield: Increased the radius from 180 to 240. This skill now additionally grants barrier to nearby allies each pulse.
Counterattack Kick: Increased the power coefficient from 2.25 to 2.5 in PvE only.
Counterattack: Reduced the cooldown from 15 seconds to 12 seconds in PvE and from 30 seconds to 25 seconds in PvP.
Danger Time: This trait no longer increases critical strike damage against enemies afflicted with slow and instead grants a critical strike damage bonus when you inflict slow on an enemy.
Dead or Alive: Increased the base healing from 1,200 to 1,680.
Death Spiral: This skill no longer grants life force and instead steals life from enemies that it strikes. Reduced the power coefficient from 1.8 to 1.6 in PvP and WvW. Reduced the aftercast by 0.2 seconds.
Dread: This trait now grants a short bonus to outgoing strike damage when inflicting fear on an enemy and no longer reduces the recharge of the third death shroud skill when killing an enemy.
Elutriate: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target and inflict chill and vulnerability on those enemies.
Empowered Armaments: Reduced the strike damage bonus from 15% to 10% in PvE only.
Enduring Swing: Increased the power coefficient from 1.6 to 1.76 in PvE only.
Enhanced Embodiment: Increased the Cosmic Wisdom extension from 1 second to 5 seconds in PvE only.
Enterprising Aristocrat: This trait additionally grants you barrier after using an artifact skill, and you take reduced strike and condition damage while you have barrier with this trait equipped.
Equal and Opposite Reaction: This trait has been moved to the alchemy specialization, replacing Purity of Purpose.
Ether Renewal: This skill now also recovers some endurance each pulse.
Exalted Hammer: Increased the radius from 180 to 240. This skill now additionally grants protection to nearby allies.
Fast Hands: This trait now grants swiftness when swapping weapons in combat instead of reducing the weapon-swap cooldown.
Featherfoot Grace: This skill now also grants protection.
Fiery Impact: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target and inflict burning and bleeding on those enemies.
Forged Surfer Dash: Reduced the burning of additional bombs from 6 seconds to 3.5 seconds in PvE only. Reduced the burning of additional bombs when the Meticulous Custodian trait is equipped from 8 seconds to 4.5 seconds in PvE only. Reduced the power coefficient of additional bombs from 2.4 to 1.2 in PvE only. Reduced the power coefficient of additional bombs when the Meticulous Custodian trait is equipped from 2.8 to 1.4 in PvE only.
Frostfire Ward: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target and remove conditions from you.
Furious Focus: This trait has moved to the grandmaster tier slot previously occupied by Symbolic Avenger and has been reworked. It now increases the player's strike damage and movement speed while under the effects of fury and creates a Lesser Symbol of Blades when activating the first Virtue skill.
Galvanize: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target.
Go for the Throat: This is a new grandmaster trait, replacing Honed Axes. When you strike an enemy with a Beast skill, cast Lesser "Sic 'Em!" on them.
Grasping Darkness: This skill now also grants quickness to the necromancer if it strikes an enemy.
Gravity Well: Reduced the knockdown duration from 3 seconds to 2 seconds.
Grenade Kit: Grenades now respect the auto attack setting.
HGH: This trait now also grants fury in PvE only.
Heavy Metal: This trait fills the slot previously occupied by Equal and Opposite Reaction. Your critical strike chance and critical damage is increased against enemies below the health threshold. This begins against enemies below 75% health and increases further against enemies below 50% and 25% health.
Hex-Eater Vortex: Reduced the torment duration from 5 seconds to 3 seconds in PvE only.
Hilt Bash: Reduced the cooldown from 25 seconds to 20 seconds in PvE and PvP. increased the damage multiplier from 2.25 to 2.5 in PvE only.
Holo-Dancer Decoy: This skill now additionally pulses might to nearby allies and grants additional might and fury to allies when it self-destructs.
Honed Axes: This trait has been moved to the master tier, replacing Natural Healing. This trait no longer grants extra base ferocity to merged soulbeasts.
Illusionary Inspiration: Reduced the outgoing healing modifier from 15% to 5% in PvE and WvW and from 10% to 5% in PvP.
Improved Alacrity: This trait has been removed and replaced by Time Bomb. Enemies struck by Time Sink are affixed with a time bomb. Time bombs increase your strike damage dealt to the target and explode when they expire.
Time Bomb: This trait replaces Improved Alacrity
Inscription: This trait no longer grants resistance when using a glyph and instead grants resistance when attuning to air. The resistance duration is decreased when the Fresh Air trait is also equipped.
Kinetic Battery: This trait now also grants increased strike damage when it triggers.
Loud Whistle: Increased the strike damage bonus from 10% to 15% in PvE only. This increase does not apply to merged soulbeasts.
Malicious Swarm: This trait fills the adept tier slot previously occupied by Spiteful Renewal. Cast Lesser Signet of the Locust when you use your healing skill.
Maul: Reduced the cooldown from 8 seconds to 6 seconds in PvP only. Increased the power coefficient from 2.0 to 2.2 in PvE only.
Mental Collapse: Reduced the stun duration from 3 seconds to 2 seconds in PvE only.
Metal Legion Guitar: Increased the radius from 180 to 240.
Meticulous Custodian: This trait no longer grants increased stacks of beneficial artifact effects.
Mistburn Mortar: Reduced the burning inflicted by additional strikes from 3 seconds to 2.5 seconds in PvE only.
Mistfire: Reduced the burning stacks from 2 to 1 and the burning duration from 8 seconds to 6 seconds in PvE only.
Mistsfire: This skill now inflicts slow on enemies struck while Legendary Entity Stance is equipped.
Modified Ammunition: Reduce the damage increase from 2% to 1% in PvE and from 1.5% to 1% in WvW.
Natural Healing: This trait has been moved to the adept tier, replacing Potent Ally.
Net Shot: Increased the missile velocity.
Nightfall: This skill will now only convert boons to conditions and blind enemies on the initial strike. Reduced the pulse interval from 2 to 1. This skill now also grants protection to the necromancer and grants life force to the necromancer every interval if they are inside the area.
Numinous Gift: The boon granted by Legendary Assassin Stance has been changed from quickness to fury in all modes. The boon granted by equipping Legendary Entity Stance has been changed from fury to quickness in in all modes.
Optimized Activation: Increased the vigor duration from 2 seconds to 4 seconds in PvE only.
Overcharged Shot: Increased the missile velocity.
Pack Alpha: Increased the attribute increase from 150 to 300 in PvE only. This increase does not apply to merged soulbeasts.
Perpetual Wisdom: This trait has been renamed to Found Purpose. This trait no longer causes Cosmic Wisdom to be active indefinitely or reduce passive energy regeneration; instead, in addition to its previous effect of triggering Numinous Gift when you swap legends, it also grants boons to allies around you whenever you trigger its effects.
Phantasmal Sharpshooter: Reduced the ammo count from 2 to 1 in PvE only.
Portal Fire: This skill now inflicts slow on enemies struck while Legendary Entity Stance is equipped.
Possessive Hoarder: Barrier granted by this trait has been changed to grant the barrier from Magpie's Defense and Enterprising Aristocrat to nearby allies instead.
Possessive Hoarder: Increased the radius from 240 to 360.
Possessive Hoarder: This trait now works outside of combat.
Pry Bar: Increased the number of targets from 1 to 3.
Reckoning Blast: This skill now inflicts slow on enemies struck while Legendary Entity Stance is equipped.
Reduced the cooldown of pet swapping with a defeated pet from 60 seconds to 35 seconds in PvE and PvP.
Release Potential: All Release Potential skills now use the same weapon-type scaling when calculating damage, regardless of the weapon type equipped.
Release Potential: Mesmer: Reduced the torment stacks from 4 to 2.
Renewing Splendor: This trait fills the master tier slot previously occupied by Furious Focus. Heal yourself when you create a light field or finish a combo in a light field.
Resounding Timbre: This trait has been reworked. It now causes you to copy boons from yourself to your pet when you use a command skill. If you are a merged soulbeast, extend the duration of boons on yourself instead.
Revenge Counter: This trait has been reworked and renamed Resolute Counter. Full Counter heals and removes conditions from you.
Rift of Pain: This skill now creates an ethereal combo field if Legendary Entity Stance is equipped.
Savage Slash: Increased the power coefficient from 3.0 to 3.3 in PvE and from 1.1 to 1.21 in WvW and PvP.
Serrated Steel: This trait also causes critical strikes to inflict bleeding and has moved to the adept minor slot.
Shale Storm: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target and inflicts blind and cripple on those enemies.
Sharpshooter: This trait has been reworked and moved to the slot previously occupied by Modified Ammunition. Bleeding scales with power instead of condition damage, but at a reduced rate.
Shield of Courage: This skill now breaks stun.
Signet of Humility: Reduced the cooldown from 60 seconds to 45 seconds and reduced the defiance damage from 600 to 350 in PvE only.
Slash: Increased the power coefficient from 0.8 to 0.88 in PvE only.
Slice: Increased the power coefficient from 1.0 to 1.1 in PvE only.
Slow Counter: This trait has been reworked and renamed Resilient Counter. Full Counter grants resistance.
Soothing Burst: This skill now also causes your next strike to deal additional damage to enemies around your target and heal you.
Sovereign of Light: Reduced the power coefficient from 1.7 to 1.5 in PvE only. Reduced the base healing from 773 to 508 in PvP only. Reduced the base healing from 1,289 to 773 in WvW only. Reduced the healing coefficient from 0.7 to 0.5 in WvW only.
Spiteful Fortitude: This trait fills the master tier slot previously occupied by Awaken the Pain. Gain vitality based on your power. Gain life force when you strike an enemy below 50% health.
Spiteful Renewal: This trait has been moved to the blood magic specialization and renamed Blood Renewal, replacing Blood Bond.
Staunch Auras: This trait has been reworked and renamed to Elemental Synergy. Gain an additional bonus when finishing a combo, based on your current attunement. This bonus can trigger once per attunement per interval. 
Swoop: Reduced the cooldown from 12 seconds to 10 seconds in PvE and from 18 seconds to 15 seconds in PvP. Increased the power coefficient from 2.18 to 2.4 in PvE only.
Symbol of Energy: The projectile fired by this skill is now unblockable.
Symbolic Avenger: This trait has moved to the grandmaster minor slot, replacing Symbolic Power.
Technobabble: Reduced the daze duration from 3 seconds to 1 second.
Time Marches On: This trait no longer reduces the duration of incoming movement-impairing conditions and now increases the effectiveness of alacrity on you.
Torrential Mists: This skill now inflicts slow on enemies struck while Legendary Entity Stance is equipped.
Twin Moon Sweep: Reduced the bleeding and confusion durations from 8 seconds to 4 seconds in PvE only.
Twin Moon Sweep: While Legendary Centaur Stance is equipped, this skill now removes conditions from allies around you and a fragment, instead of just yourself. The number of conditions removed no longer increases based on enemies struck.
Twist of Fate: Increased the superspeed duration from 1.5 seconds to 3 seconds.
Two-Handed Training: This trait has been reworked and renamed Bestial Rage. Gain might and fury when you disable a foe.
Virtue of Courage: This skill now breaks stun.
Well of Precognition: Increased the cooldown from 30 seconds to 60 seconds in PvE only.
Well of Senility: Reduced the daze duration from 3 seconds to 2 seconds in PvE only.
Zealot's Resolution: This trait now triggers when striking an enemy that is under the health threshold instead of when you are struck below the health threshold.
Zephyrite Sun Crystal: Increased the radius from 180 to 240. This skill no longer breaks stun. This skill now blinds opponents that are struck and removes conditions from nearby allies. The passive ability of this skill has been changed to, "When you use a weapon skill that costs initiative, remove conditions from yourself."
